# Emotional conditioned music generation 
## Overview
This project focuses on music generation using symbolic music generation techniques conditioned on continuous-valued emotions. It implements various models and analysis tools for creating and analyzing music samples. The project consists of the following folders:

* __model__: Contains the source code for a generative model based on the paper ["Symbolic music generation conditioned on continuous-valued emotions"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16165) by Serkan Sulun et al.. This folder includes the code that implements the model described in the paper.

* __VRASH__: Contains the source code for a Variational Recurrent Autoencoder (VRAE).

* __VAE__: Contains the source code for a standard Variational Autoencoder (VAE).

* __samples_trimmed__: Contains a collection of music samples that were generated by continious-concatenated transformer model. These samples have been trimmed to 30 seconds for convenience.

* __analysis__: Provides tools for analyzing EEG data, Neo-Riemannian transformations in generated music samples, and querying the Spotify API to obtain information about the valence and arousal of music tracks. The EEG data was obtained during an experiment where the participant listened to music tracks from the "samples_trimmed" folder.

## Getting Started
To get started with this project, please follow these instructions:

* Clone the repository to your local machine.
* Install the required dependencies listed in the requirements.txt file.
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
* Set up the necessary configuration, such as environmental variables for the Spotify API.
* Explore the different folders and their contents to understand the functionality provided by each component.
* Refer to the documentation and source code of each model to understand their implementation details.
* Experiment with the generative models and analysis tools to generate music samples and analyze their characteristics.

## Contributors
This project serves as my coursework for the Applied Mathematics and Informatics program at HSE University. Partially the code was taken from [here](https://github.com/serkansulun/midi-emotion/tree/master/src).

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use, modify, and distribute the code in accordance with the terms specified in the license. Please note that this project may rely on third-party libraries, frameworks, and datasets. Refer to their respective licenses and terms of use before using them in your own projects.

